.\" Copyright (C) 2013 Kevin Boone 
.\" Permission is granted to any individual or institution to use, copy, or
.\" redistribute this software so long as all of the original files are
.\" included, and that this copyright notice is retained.
.\"
.TH epub2txt 1 "April 2013"
.SH NAME
epub2txt \- Extract text from EPUB documents 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B epub2txt 
.RB [options]\ {files...} 
.PP

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIepub2txt\fR is simple utility for extracting text from EPUB
documents. It is mainly intended for reading EPUB e-books on systems
that cannot run a graphical EPUB viewer, and favours speed over
optimal rendering of complex layout.

The output is to \fIstdout\fR; if multiple files are specified,
they are simply processed sequentially. Unless otherwise specified,
the character encoding of the output is the same as for the EPUB
source, which is invariably UTF-8. However, \fIepub2txt\fR can
attempt to output plain ASCII if so instructed.


.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.BI -a,\-\-ascii
Converts Unicode characters in the EPUB document that have close
ASCII equivalents to ASCII, and replaces any others with '?'. 
For example, the Unicode left single quote is similar to
an ASCII straight quote. This option is intended for use when feeding
the output of \fIepub2txt\fR into another utility that cannot deal
with UTF8 encoding.
.LP
.TP
.BI -d,\-\-debug {0-4}
Set the level of debugging information, from 0 (none) to
4 (extremely detailed tracing).
.LP
.TP
.BI -n,\-\-notrim
If no output width is specified, then this option bypasses
\fIepub2txt\fR's processing of whitespace. Normally whitespace is
trimmed from the beginnings of lines, and multiple whitespace in the 
middle of a line is condensed to a single space. Bypassing whitespace
trimming makes operation considerably faster on long documents, but 
is really only useful if the output of \fIepub2txt\fR is being further
processed by something else that formats the text. This option is 
incompatible with \fB-w\fR.
.LP
.TP
.BI -p,\-\-paras {count}
Write out the paragraph number every {count} paragraphs. The paragraph
number is written in the form *** PARA NNN, to make it noticeable. 
\fB--paras\fR and \fB--start\fR provide a simple way to resume reading
a document from a specific point.  
.LP
.TP
.BI -s,\-\-start {para}
Start output from paragraph {para} in the source document. The
\fB--paras\fR option tells \fIepub2txt\fR to print the paragraph
number at particular intervals; this paragraph number can then
be used as the argument to \fB--start\fR to resume reading from
a particular point. The value of \fB--paras\fR depends on the amount
of text that will fit on the screen and, to some extent, the typical
length of a paragraph in the source document. Too small a value makes
the paragraph marks intrusive when reading; too large and it can be
quite difficult to find the current paragraph number. Note that
\fBepub2txt\fR specifies document position in paragraphs rather than 
lines or pages,
because paragraphs are a feature of the source document, whilst
lines and pages will vary according to the amount of text that fits
on the screen.
.LP
.TP
.BI -w,\-\-width {columns}
Format the output to fit into a specified width. If this option is
omitted, or is set to zero, then the output is assumed to be of
unlimited width. Otherwise, line breaks are inserted to keep the output
within the specified width. For direct reading, it is usually helpful
to set a width. For situations where the output is being processed
by another application, it is nearly always better to omit this option,
and let target application handle line breaking or justification 
itself. This is because in a plain text document, there is no way
for the target application to distinguish line breaks inserted by
\fIepub2txt\fR for formatting, from line breaks that were part of the
document structure (e.g., between paragraphs). 
.LP
.TP
.BI -v,\-\-version
Displays the version and copyright infomation.
.LP

.SH AUTHOR AND LEGAL
\fIepub2txt\fR
is maintained by Kevin Boone, and is open source under the
terms of the GNU Public Licence, version 2.0. There is no warranty
of any kind.


.\" end of file
